So we talked conceptually about
intersection types a bit earlier.
We regard it as sort of end,
but for types.
So, let's apply similar to how
we probe that the union type.
Let's look at what kinds of values
an intersection type accepts and
then what the resultant
intersection type can be used as.
So here, if you recall when we go back
to our union type example, union types
accepted just about all the examples we
had, it wouldn't accept like a string.
But any number that's either even,
or one through five, it'll accept.
Look how picky this intersection type is.
It won't accept an even and low number.
Sorry, it won't accept 6,
because six is not a low number.
It's not in one through five.
It won't accept three
because it's not even.
It'll accept four or two, and that's it.
So it's very,
very picky in terms of what it accepts.
But if we look at how it can be used,
all of these functions
are very happy to take the intersection
type as an argument, right?
This is two or four, it's guaranteed
to be even, and a low number.
It's guaranteed to be an even
number that is also under five.
And of course it's a number.
And if we look back up to
our union type example,
look at all these that failed, right?
And it's because a union type is so
accepting.
There's always a member in the set,
for these three,
that causes TypeScript to object, right?
Here it's not happy with the number one.
Here it's not happy with the number six.
Here it's also not happy
with the number six.
Okay, so there's sort of, there's a little
bit of interesting asymmetry here.
So what intersection types are it
means that is it's everything
that is in both sets, in this case,
the numbers two and four.
And because of that we can use any of
the behavior that's present In either set,
meaning if there are methods on either set
we have access to all of those methods in
terms of where we can use this value.
It can sub in for an even number or
for a number one through five,
it kind of makes everything happy there.
So when I say there's some asymmetry,
I mean this in terms of
values allowed in the set,
a union type on the left, very accepting.
Anything can join the set.
Anything can join the union and
as long as it's in one of the two sets.
The requirements that all members meet,
you could think of that as very small.
We can only assume that it's I
guess a number lower than ten.
It can't stand in for an even cuz
it's not guaranteed to be even.
It can't stand in for
one through five cuz well,
it's not guaranteed to
be one through five.
And on the other side,
we have a very picky intersection type.
But in terms of the requirements that
all members meet, it's everything.
Meaning it's an even number,
it is a number one through five,
it can it can be used,
going back to this example here.
It can be passed into
all of these functions.
So that's what I mean by asymmetry.
They're sort of like what values can
it hold versus what guarantees do
we have about any given
member of the resultant type.
I already mentioned here I say 50
to one earlier I said 100 to one.
It's in application code it is very,
very rare to see intersection types.
You'll see union types all over the place
because of control flow to places
where intersection types will appear.
It's object.assign and
the equivalent object spread,
where you're literally
merging two objects together.
Those are places where you may not
explicitly end up writing an intersection
type, but
it's happening behind the scenes.
You're getting kind of
the merged two things together.